## Simulation engines

The report delineates the issue of crowd flow on the AGH campus, employing the
Social Force model to illustrate the phenomenon. The model under scrutiny offers
a precise representation of pedestrian behaviour in that it accurately reflects
the tendency of individuals to circumvent collisions with others (as illustrated
in [@fig:laufer2008passenger-000]). In contrast to the tendency to reach one's
destination expeditiously, pedestrians appear to prioritise the avoidance of
collisions. Furthermore, the Social Force model incorporates the tendency of
agents to maintain a safe distance from obstacles, such as lawns or walls, which
aligns with empirical observations.

One alternative could be the Pygame library, which has been designed for the
creation of games and multimedia applications in Python. Pygame allows for the
creation of interactive simulations in which the user can change the simulation
parameters in real time. It is particularly well-suited for visualising cellular
automata and other discrete systems. However, due to the language used, it is
not a very efficient solution.

It is evident that alternative, highly prevalent solutions comprise substantial
game engines, such as Unity and Unreal Engine. These offer a substantially
elevated degree of functionality in comparison to Pygame; however, they
necessitate a more substantial investment of both knowledge and time to master.
These tools are of a more intricate nature, yet they facilitate the development
of sophisticated simulations and their subsequent visualisation.

It is also pertinent to mention the Godot engine, which is both free and open
source, yet offers a plethora of features that are commonly found in paid
engines. A notable advantage of the Godot engine is its smaller size compared to
Unity or Unreal Engine, while retaining the capability to create sophisticated
simulations.
